Richelle Direny: School
Richelle Direny: Are you there, Matthew.
Richelle Direny: Yes. Okay.
Richelle Direny: Hold on. One moment. I let them know that you came. You came right in because um I think yesterday I had someone that had that issue where the weight was really long. So I just gave them the code. So if they yell at me. It's fine.
Matthew Knauff: As long as we're sorry about that.
Richelle Direny: That's okay. That's okay because the thing is I have appointments back to back, and I don't want
Richelle Direny: Because you're waiting to come in and then it runs into the next person's time
Richelle Direny: Okay, so, um,
Richelle Direny: But thank you so much for responding
Matthew Knauff: No problem.
Matthew Knauff: I appreciate you giving me you sent me that message, the day before, because I'm really bad about
Matthew Knauff: Forgetting suppose that really was nice. I really appreciate that.
Richelle Direny: You're welcome. I mean, I do find that when I do send people the messages they do tend to comply. So I'm gonna have to speak to them even about like the groups as well as sending out reminders about the groups because
Richelle Direny: I think people you know more
Richelle Direny: More consistent in attending the
Richelle Direny: The groups or even individuals. If the hammer minor kind of like, you know, when you go to the doctor, they send you a bunch of reminders. I say say yes. If you confirm knows you want to reschedule.
Matthew Knauff: Yeah.
Matthew Knauff: I like that.
Matthew Knauff: That platinum in your hair is that new
Richelle Direny: Oh, you didn't see me you weren't. Were you in group on Thursday.
Matthew Knauff: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, no, I had. It's like a white
Matthew Knauff: See platinum. I love it.
Richelle Direny: I'm going on, salt and pepper. So I want to ease my mind into being that way, salt and pepper. So I said, let me put it in. Let me see how I can
Matthew Knauff: So thing. Yeah, yeah.
Richelle Direny: All right then. So, um, so this this session is on your kind of your initial intake with we're getting just it's more information just kind of get your history.
Richelle Direny: And then after that, we'll set up kind of after we're finished. What we're going to move forward with our we're going to move forward with with meeting.
Richelle Direny: Whether it's weekly every other week monthly just kind of what's going on what it is that you're looking to get out of it what you want to work on and kind of going from there.
Richelle Direny: Okay, so, um, and then you know the next session that I scheduled with you would be kind of going over your treatment plan. Okay, and
For your
Richelle Direny: For your
Richelle Direny: Group tomorrow at 12 o'clock, and I think I'm one of the care coordinators say she was going to send out reminders for the group tomorrow.
Matthew Knauff: Okay, I got that scheduled. Oh my god, I could remember that that's weekly so I
Matthew Knauff: Under 12 now. So that's, yeah.
Yeah.
Richelle Direny: Are you up to date with your urine tests and everything that you need to do. Are you up to date with them.
Richelle Direny: Yes, ma'am.
Richelle Direny: How do you pronounce your last name.
How do you
Richelle Direny: Not have
Richelle Direny: Alright so I'm kind of like, you know what the general rules are with, you know, the general rule of bright heart is that you always have on a headset. I
Richelle Direny: For the most part, to try to follow that rule and kind of tell everybody about that rule when it's coming onto your bio. You know, and it's you're just by yourself.
Richelle Direny: That's fine. But when we're in group, I really try to encourage everyone to have their headsets on simply because if there are other people in the room.
Richelle Direny: I mean, if you have other people in your room, it's kind of not keeping everybody what everybody else seen is saying in the group confidential. So we really encourage that you do that.
Matthew Knauff: I'm glad you
Matthew Knauff: Told me that I get know that
Richelle Direny: Yes, especially when we're in the group because, you know, it's kind of like if you're sharing something and you know I don't have on a headset and I have a whole audience behind me, they're hearing what you're saying. Send.
Richelle Direny: Individual I always try to be. I have to honestly say things feel like I'm going off. So, you know, always in like an office setting or what have you.
Richelle Direny: But that's the one thing I'm just kind of going over the rules of bright heart in terms of what the expectations are each time that we meet
Richelle Direny: And I kind of implemented. I don't know how anybody else's but I kind of implemented, just for
Richelle Direny: My own peace of mind also to help you. Is that I tried my best to send out reminders of your sessions, um, you know, I try to tell people, the number is, I, I literally got a number, just for this.
Richelle Direny: So if you're unable to make your session just shoot me a quick little text, just like you did and just say, Hey, Michelle. Listen, you know, something just came up. I'm not going to be able to make my session or I'm sitting, I'm here, I'm just sitting in the I'm on
Richelle Direny: Hold on. They're saying that you didn't
Richelle Direny: Hold on.
Well,
Richelle Direny: He said the weight was 10 to 15
Matthew Knauff: Yeah, that's what I just said.
Richelle Direny: Okay.
Richelle Direny: Okay, so I don't know. They said that maybe you didn't check in properly so I don't know for sure. I think virtual clinic has like the one standard number
Richelle Direny: So I'm you know after I meet with you if they need to meet with you to go over anything, then I'll just tell you to go over in a virtual clinic, but let me see.
Richelle Direny: Um, but, however, you know, just always just kind of let me know whether email.
Richelle Direny: Text typically usually when I send my reminders. I also put an email in there that if you can't get me by phone to send an email. I mean, I checked my email. Pretty much throughout the day text messages I check it all the time.
Richelle Direny: Because all of it is downloaded to my phone. So I am able to check in and respond to you accordingly.
Richelle Direny: If you ever, you know, we'd meet at the end. Like I said, for individuals, we will come up with. How we will do that for groups, it is weekly
Richelle Direny: 12 o'clock, and of course, like I said, starting April will do the 12 O'clock session and six o'clock session.
Richelle Direny: I'm going to leave it open for anyone who the 12 O'clock sessions are very large. So, you know, I'm going to kind of split that you know if the evening is that are few then attend the evening.
Richelle Direny: If you're not, you meet with the doctor to get your scripts refilled during the group.
Richelle Direny: If for whatever reason you're unable to make it. I don't know how the communication is set up or how Natalie has the communication setup.
Richelle Direny: But I really tried to just be as transparent as possible and helpful as possible to everyone that I work with, so I don't mind.
Richelle Direny: If you shoot me a text or shoot me know and says, Hey, Michelle, I was not able to make it to group today, but I'm running low on my script.
Richelle Direny: And I can reach out to the cure team or to Natalie and just say, Hey, this is the situation, you know, can you refill his script and then I can let them know. I do have an appointment scheduled with you. But if you're going to use it all the time now and be like slow your old no
Richelle Direny: He said, I'm saying
Yeah.
Richelle Direny: So,
Richelle Direny: Okay, they're saying that that's the new waiting. Waiting image, but it doesn't apply at all times.
Richelle Direny: Okay.
Richelle Direny: Um, so that's kind of like the gist of kind of how I operate and how I try to do things like I'm here for you. I'm here to help everyone that I were all my patients. I try to do the best by each and every patient that I work with.
Richelle Direny: I believe if you work with me. I work with you if you're really, really want to work the program and do what needs to be done.
Richelle Direny: I'm here for you that's just kind of the model that I have. And that's what I try to work within those rooms. Okay. Um, did after I meet with after I finish meeting with you. I'm going to have you go back to the
Richelle Direny: Virtual clinic. Okay. And they said,
Matthew Knauff: When you're finished with me.
Richelle Direny: So that's kind of the general thing every time that we meet, it is going to be a recorded session group individual
Richelle Direny: It's always a recorded session. Everything Adult Health confidential, just like even if you're in your doctor's office or wherever you go, who is privy to the information is who is a part of your care.
Richelle Direny: That's just how it goes. Unless you share something or say something which is
Richelle Direny: harm to yourself or someone else and you know kind of confidentially kind of Europe's flies. Right, I'm doing in crime. So any questions thus far.
Matthew Knauff: Not low
Richelle Direny: Alright, so let's get started and let's get started by mom if you could just share a little bit of what, um, how did you hear about break harmony.
Matthew Knauff: Online.
Matthew Knauff: Either I was looking for a new doctor and I had it was that when the sites that I went to, had a thing about it. You guys were advertising on their
Own
Richelle Direny: And I'm
Richelle Direny: So you already looking if you weren't in our rehab program before or it was just like through your primary care and you just wanted to be in a program that's how you
Matthew Knauff: You came about looking. I was driving to it was in another state. So it was a good it was a far drive
Richelle Direny: Okay, um, where you have you ever been in any kind of rehab prior
Matthew Knauff: And rehab programs, not impatient. I have it. No.
Richelle Direny: But you've never done it. You've always just done my kind of what is it I LP or outpatient
Matthew Knauff: Programs.
Matthew Knauff: Actually, when I first for the first couple years. I never had any counseling or anything. I did start going to na after my first year.
Matthew Knauff: And then
Matthew Knauff: Just probably in the last two years, have I done actual like counseling.
Richelle Direny: Okay, so you've never done any counseling before is what you're saying.
Matthew Knauff: For the past I have like for about 18 months I did.
Matthew Knauff: Which was like a but two years ago, and the constant was, um, and then the last doctor, I went to. I had groups in individual to go
Richelle Direny: Okay, and what was, um, when was the last time you went to a concert, maybe a year ago, two years ago.
Matthew Knauff: How recent was on know the week before I started here.
Matthew Knauff: Okay, so do you know I don't want any tea since 2007
Richelle Direny: Okay, okay, okay.
Richelle Direny: Um,
Richelle Direny: Now, if you can just give me a little bit of background or insight on kind of your history.
Richelle Direny: Your history of addiction. Okay, like your, you know, your drug of choice, the things that you've, you know, tried you know length of sobriety. If you've had in the past.
Matthew Knauff: Yeah, I've
Matthew Knauff: Since the
Matthew Knauff: Second week that I well since the first month, I was on buprenorphine in 2007 I've been clean from opiates. Ever since I've never had a relapse will never be it.
Matthew Knauff: But I have one instead amphetamines.
Matthew Knauff: Before
Richelle Direny: What so in your history, what, when did you start
Richelle Direny: Like, when was your introduction
Matthew Knauff: Um, I was when I was 16 I
Matthew Knauff: Started getting I had some dental work done for my braces and I got pain medicine prescribed and then
Matthew Knauff: By time I was 17 I was getting extra strength like it in prescribed
Matthew Knauff: And then I'm in healthcare. So I tempted these doctors offices in right at that time was when they would come the reps from like Purdue Pharma and endo we come and teach you like
Matthew Knauff: Every lunch like what to look for in a drug seeking patient. What was so I knew all of that stuff. So by time. I was 19 I was prescribed 200 milligrams of morphine, a day.
Matthew Knauff: Ms content. And so, and I had myself convinced that I had this terrible pain that which I really didn't. It was my addiction and so
Matthew Knauff: I think I was 24 so when I got clean
Matthew Knauff: But it was never I'd never even heard of anything, but I have actually been impatient one time. I'm sorry.
Matthew Knauff: And you just had to. There was no they give you. Clonidine, and that was it. I mean, you had to be
Matthew Knauff: Miserable. So I just never even. It wasn't even something that entered my head. I never thought about every possibility of being able to get clean
Matthew Knauff: So when I heard about Suboxone and everything. I was like, it was really, I guess like latched on to that because I was so sick of the way that I was exist in my existence was miserable Miserable. It was no way to live. And so I
Matthew Knauff: I don't know. I have a lot of willpower. But I really stuck with it and just
You know,
Matthew Knauff: Never wanted to. I remember for the first couple years, I would even be taking a shower and I would feel so free, like, wow, I can you know
Matthew Knauff: I'm not liking that sick every day. And I can just someone can call me and I can run out the door and do something. I mean, they had really impacted my life alive. And so I was really happy.
Richelle Direny: Ok and
Richelle Direny: Now after the age of 24 you said that was kind of when you acknowledge that you were addicted, or you acknowledge it from
Matthew Knauff: The age of 19 I knew I was, I had known for quite a few years that I was
Matthew Knauff: Addicted I mean my life had to come completely unmanageable. And anything of
Matthew Knauff: Any type of way. There was no denying that that I was, you know,
Matthew Knauff: I the last two years, I, I knew what it was. I mean, I knew what was up that it was nothing but my
Prediction.
Richelle Direny: Now you did say that you work in healthcare, you still work in healthcare.
Matthew Knauff: I do
Richelle Direny: Okay, are you a nurse.
Matthew Knauff: What what
Matthew Knauff: Kind of advanced the MTV.
Richelle Direny: Europe.
Richelle Direny: You said I want
Matthew Knauff: I'd been CMT
Matthew Knauff: CMT ok and a minute being empty.
Richelle Direny: Okay, you know, it's like empty as a paramedic right
Richelle Direny: Right. Okay. Um, now
Richelle Direny: Did you
Richelle Direny: Was there any kind of childhood trauma or, you know, any kind of abuse or anything that you've experienced growing up.
Richelle Direny: No.
Matthew Knauff: Not really, you know,
Richelle Direny: When you say not really. It's kind of like it's kind of yes no
Matthew Knauff: I would say, kind of, because I'm
Matthew Knauff: I had I'm gay. And I had never even seen another gay person because I'm from a real small town until I was probably 17 so
Matthew Knauff: That was really, really.
Matthew Knauff: Hard kind of
Matthew Knauff: Fit. I really had like feelings of like alone. And so even though I was had a lot of friends and everything. I still had it was still really
Matthew Knauff: I still felt completely isolated and I realized when I finally like graduated and moved away to I have for years. I didn't even know who I was. I just played these parts and just, that's what I
Matthew Knauff: I went, I didn't even realize I any three free thought that was real bad about I actually a certain way around whatever group. I was around even sides of my family.
Matthew Knauff: Because they didn't want anyone to ever think anything bad about me or anything. So I just played these parts and I'd be good back and forth from and when I finally got my own life, just like wow that was I'd even know anything about myself real leg, which is sad, but I didn't. And so
Matthew Knauff: Now,
Matthew Knauff: I'm and I always like anything that
Matthew Knauff: turn the volume up on this.
Richelle Direny: Whole there. Are you are you hearing me in a delay.
Matthew Knauff: Sometimes it cuts out the volumes. Whoa. Whoa.
Richelle Direny: Okay.
Richelle Direny: Is it still is your volume up now.
Matthew Knauff: Anytime someone called in like someone I started receiving a call and after that it went real low. So it's something with my phone, but I don't know. I can hear you better now.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, I think it's I've noticed. Everyone experienced that when they get a phone call it either mutes everything or you have to like turn it off and come back in. That's what happens when you get a phone call, I do hear a lot of people saying
Richelle Direny: Now when you said like the isolation. We did you feel like isolated by your friends and family when you started identifying as being gay or is it was just isolated in terms of the way you were feeling was contrary to everything that you saw around you in the town that you live.
Matthew Knauff: Right, and definitely feelings of like that was
Matthew Knauff: My family like part of it was really, really big Christian and stuff. So I always had like this. Like I was something I was terrible. Like, you know,
Matthew Knauff: But it wasn't something I ever really struggled with because it was something I knew
Matthew Knauff: I mean I'm I didn't go through any of that, like struggle with who I was, or anything. I always knew that I just, it was really
Matthew Knauff: Lonely. I would say
Richelle Direny: Never felt like I really
Matthew Knauff: Connected with anybody, much like
Matthew Knauff: Is what I guess I would say, is how I felt.
Richelle Direny: Now with
Richelle Direny: Now, what was your, your, so your drug of choice was always pills opiates.
Matthew Knauff: Yeah.
Never alcohol OBS I've had
Matthew Knauff: No opiates, benzodiazepines, I was on those for over a decade and I tapered off. There's about two years ago.
And
Matthew Knauff: I've had some problems with the amphetamines, but I take some for ADHD and that seems to help suppress that
Matthew Knauff: Really well.
Matthew Knauff: I think was my at my ADHD what caused the
Matthew Knauff: Use of amphetamines because I haven't really really bad in it, like, really.
Matthew Knauff: Is really affects my life pretty it's pretty has a pretty big impact. And so I i think that that's what has had to do with that because I don't really have any problem with it when I have my medicine.
Richelle Direny: Oh yeah. Do you have any underlying medical conditions.
Matthew Knauff: I had depression.
Matthew Knauff: Since I was young, I've been. I've been in a depressant every service depressed, since I was a teenager, but I've been on antidepressants since I've been 18 or so.
Matthew Knauff: And
Matthew Knauff: Anxiety.
Matthew Knauff: Which
Matthew Knauff: I was really caused by the medicine. Now I think worse than anything now that I'm off of it. I really don't seem like I have anxiety that much anymore.
Matthew Knauff: But my depression and stuff is I battled with it. Nothing ever really completely helped and I suffered a good bit from it but
Matthew Knauff: I found that my testosterone is low. A couple years ago, two years ago, and I started on testosterone replacement
Matthew Knauff: And it changed my life like now I don't really, I would not even consider that I have depression. Like I never have any symptoms of it at all, which is really, really new for me. I'd never
Matthew Knauff: It's really nice.
Richelle Direny: You said that your they tested in they realize your testosterone levels were really low.
Richelle Direny: Yeah. Okay, so you're still on medication for that.
Matthew Knauff: Or
Yeah.
Matthew Knauff: Or in a depressant.
Richelle Direny: Know the testosterone and I see your, your mouth moving and then
Richelle Direny: I'm OK.
Richelle Direny: I see your mouth moving and then later on I hear your voice.
Voice
Richelle Direny: Now we feel for the antidepressants was that being managed by a psychiatrist or just your regular doctor
Matthew Knauff: I went to. I went to like fighters before, but now it's just mainly by my regular doctor. I've been on the same thing for years and it seems to work, which I really don't know if I would still need to take it, but I've been on it for so long.
Matthew Knauff: I don't want to try. I'm so good mentally right now. I don't even want to mess with anything, it's
Richelle Direny: Okay, do you don't, um, so that's the only thing from a mental health standpoint or mental health issue history. The only thing you've ever had to deal with was just depression and you feel like you're pretty stable right now.
Matthew Knauff: Definitely depression, anxiety in the ADHD.
Richelle Direny: You're not on any medication for the ADHD. Right.
Matthew Knauff: No, but I'll be starting back on that now I'm
Matthew Knauff: Had to find another doctor that
Matthew Knauff: Because my moved
Around here.
Richelle Direny: You buy what around
Matthew Knauff: Oh, it's a dead comment around here as doctors will come for a short period of time and then they leave so
Matthew Knauff: I've had to find another doctor
Richelle Direny: Okay. Um, do you have, have you ever had any history of suicide attempts.
Richelle Direny: Or suicidal thoughts.
Matthew Knauff: Uh huh. Yeah.
Richelle Direny: Attempt something
Matthew Knauff: Three.
Richelle Direny: Three in what was your most recent
Matthew Knauff: Oh, it's been years ago in my 20s.
Richelle Direny: Okay, and what was surrounding that like depression, like what was surrounding those those attempts were like the overdose.
Matthew Knauff: Accident and
Matthew Knauff: All that align with that relationship breakup.
Richelle Direny: Sorry. No, go ahead. Go ahead. One was a relationship breakup.
Matthew Knauff: Yeah. And then that is about a year or so after it and and then the other was just my depression. I mean, I, I always wanted to die actually was my always my mind standards always miserable and never
Matthew Knauff: Like that was just normal for me was, think about Diane and because I always suffered from it like so nothing really ever released it. Very much so.
Matthew Knauff: That was a common thing for me to think about, but
Richelle Direny: And you said that you're lacking so
Richelle Direny: So the three attempts was like within the same year.
Matthew Knauff: Know,
Matthew Knauff: Probably
Matthew Knauff: You were probably like two years within each other. And then the other one was like several years later.
Matthew Knauff: I remember I i can't exactly remember when that's how long it's been so, thank goodness. Yeah, yeah.
Richelle Direny: And you said that you no longer have that. That's no longer your mindset.
Matthew Knauff: You have a will to live. No, no.
Matthew Knauff: Okay.
Matthew Knauff: And, you know, I'm here. I don't want to die, you
Richelle Direny: Do you have any homicidal thoughts or anything of that nature.
Matthew Knauff: No, no.
Richelle Direny: No self injurious behaviors, anything like that.
No, no.
Richelle Direny: Now I did hear you say are you currently in our relationship.
No.
Richelle Direny: Okay, and no children.
Matthew Knauff: No know
Richelle Direny: Now family history.
Richelle Direny: G. Your parents have a history of alcohol abuse or
Richelle Direny: Or any kind of substance. Oh.
Matthew Knauff: No history of substance abuse my dad.
Matthew Knauff: And my dad did drink, but
Matthew Knauff: He died.
Matthew Knauff: In 2014 but
Matthew Knauff: Not for the last part of his life for many years to drink the other than my mom.
Richelle Direny: Are you an only child, or do you have siblings.
Richelle Direny: Child, you're an only child.
Richelle Direny: Now you said what did what was the cause of your dad's death was it natural causes. Was he ill.
Matthew Knauff: You say yes and cardiac arrest.
Richelle Direny: sudden cardiac arrest.
Okay.
Richelle Direny: Now you're your mother, you still are you still pretty. Are you fairly close to your mother does she live close by.
Matthew Knauff: Yeah, I really close with her.
Richelle Direny: Now, do you have like cousins. Because sometimes, especially when you're only child. Often times, like if you have cousins, they almost become your family, your brothers and sisters did you have that type of
Matthew Knauff: Relationship within your exactly yeah I haven't really big family. And I have a lot because instead of pushing my age. Yeah. And they're more like my siblings ya.
Richelle Direny: Know that that those are you writing by they are your, your, your real sometimes. Yeah, they're more you're right, a guidance counselor and
Let me tell you from experience.
Richelle Direny: I'm
Richelle Direny: Now your extended family aunts, uncles, cousins. Do they have a history of substance abuse.
Matthew Knauff: Well, my dad side.
Matthew Knauff: Yeah yeah
Matthew Knauff: On your dad side probably me see. Yeah.
Matthew Knauff: Every one of his siblings.
Matthew Knauff: Not them, but their kids.
Matthew Knauff: Every single one of them. There's one that and he has
Matthew Knauff: Well, there's one that curves don't that she's only a half sister stores have no none at all other than that his other for what they were siblings or five day other kids.
Matthew Knauff: Except for one one just has one that has it to the alcohol problems, I would say. Other than that, every other one, at least one of their kids. It has had the opioid
Matthew Knauff: Problems and benzodiazepine problems.
Richelle Direny: And is there any history within your family context of severe
Richelle Direny: Mental illness or suicide attempts overdose.
Matthew Knauff: I would say depression or my dad side, but it was very
Matthew Knauff: That's just like when I went on antidepressants. That was, like, just like the world had ended. I mean, like, that was the most horrible thing in the whole world. They're very mature like kind of a
Matthew Knauff: Really like known around like the area and Stephen said day like a real weird about stuff like that and they and plus, they don't really believe in things like that. But they really should
Matthew Knauff: So they really that's not like anything that they will
Matthew Knauff: They would never go to a psychiatrist or counseling or anything like that.
Richelle Direny: But you said that they they never did what was counseling.
Matthew Knauff: No, no, no. Like I said when I was in a depressant. That was like
Matthew Knauff: Just like I was the world had ended because I was
Matthew Knauff: Doing that I'm like guys are idiots.
Matthew Knauff: And my but my mom's side the complete opposite like complete opposite like No, none of her cousins or anything, have no one's ever been an alcoholic or had drug problems or anything like that.
Matthew Knauff: Can play like night and day difference
Richelle Direny: Now you said that
Richelle Direny: You said that your family were you grew up in a Christian household or is it that more your mom side or was it your dad side or your parents.
Matthew Knauff: So side. And I mean, my parents would go to church and stuff later on.
Matthew Knauff: That will my dad side they were
Matthew Knauff: Like very, very, like, you know, the women were supposed to cut their hair and all that, all that stuff like that so
Matthew Knauff: on my mom's side they are good at church and everything, but they're like, well, I would say like normal, like, you know, just, it doesn't every single thing about their life is it constantly about
Matthew Knauff: I know you can. You don't have to watch church 24 seven and listen to church and
Matthew Knauff: Now know the reason why I asked because they go to church and that's fine.
Richelle Direny: Um, the reason I asked the way you said that, like your mom and her side of family was completely night and day from your dad and his family.
Matthew Knauff: Oh yeah yeah they. I mean, they get a turkey everything but not like
Matthew Knauff: It's not. They're not like obsessed with it and like everything's about that. No, no. Oh, you thought you meant like David David's completely like Wilder, you know, the outside is real Christian a
Richelle Direny: Real Christian no
Richelle Direny: No, no, no, I wasn't, I wasn't thinking like that I'd be what you're describing is like a holy roller. Like, I mean, they
Matthew Knauff: They're yeah they're really like
Matthew Knauff: Yeah, like my dad his dad lived in South Carolina, and we went down there. One time, and I went to church with them and there was people like running around and carrying the one that stuff like that. I mean, they was
Matthew Knauff: Really to get down. Yeah, that's perfect description of a perfect description of them.
Richelle Direny: Okay, what about your grandparents. Now you said your dad. Your mom side. No, no history of suicide or anything like that. But what about your paternal grandparents.
Matthew Knauff: Oh, my dad side his dad's good and he never had any
Matthew Knauff: thing like that either. But I in his family, though it did. I think his
Matthew Knauff: Dad might have had alcohol problem. I'm not for sure, but I know that my grandma that her one of her brothers has always had a drinking problem. I'm actually two of her brothers always had a drinking problem. And I think that her dad. My have but I'm not, for sure.
Matthew Knauff: He was passed away like long time before I was born. But I think maybe so.
Richelle Direny: Now, were you born in you're in Ohio. So were you born and raised in Ohio.
Matthew Knauff: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: You said your highest your highest level of education is getting you're an advanced EMT
Richelle Direny: paramedic and
Matthew Knauff: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: No legal
Richelle Direny: Any pending financial or legal issues.
Matthew Knauff: No, no.
Richelle Direny: Now this is where. So what are you hoping to
Richelle Direny: During your time and bright heart like what, what, when you thought about, you know, joining the program. You see what the offering right hard with their program offers. What is it that is your goal. What is it that you would like to work on.
Matthew Knauff: Just maintain sobriety and
Richelle Direny: Now how long you said that you've been sober. You said you've been sober for a couple of years, right, or
Matthew Knauff: Even SOBER SINCE 2007 from opiates and probably about a year or two from amphetamines.
Richelle Direny: Okay, and you still you don't you no longer to do our painful are going
Huh.
Richelle Direny: Do you still go to outpatient counseling.
Matthew Knauff: The last place that I went to. I had to go to counseling to there, but I don't go to any other
Matthew Knauff: Than this no
Okay.
Richelle Direny: Now is it like, what is your goal that you're so you're one goal you said to maintain your sobriety, which you know you've been made for a few years now. Um so 2007 you're looking at what 13 years
Richelle Direny: Did you go to any outside meeting, whether it's any, any kind of outside meetings.
Matthew Knauff: Yeah, sometimes. I will. I usually try to get like once a week at least.
Richelle Direny: Okay, my understanding. Now, I hear that they're having some type of they're starting to move them online. Now you can do online.
Matthew Knauff: So that's something that
Matthew Knauff: You can look into today. I would just went with my sponsor was and
Richelle Direny: You for you like it.
Matthew Knauff: Yeah. And that was the route. I took once I first because like the first doctor, I went to. I didn't like
Matthew Knauff: The ritual drinking about needing good in a or anything. You just went and got your medicine. And so when I started and addiction all just and he was like, you're going to get in a and everything. And so that really
Matthew Knauff: Helped me. And so I just have always kind of
Matthew Knauff: Done that I don't really know anything different. So
Richelle Direny: Now, I mean, I know the concepts of a any and all the different types of anonymous and you know you're getting you're maintaining
Richelle Direny: Going, you know, whether it's your groups or to your doctors and whether it's an addiction specialist or you're getting medication you're on.
Richelle Direny: A maintenance program I truly believe outside of you I know like the concept of a your, you have no clue what does it control.
Richelle Direny: Like the whole concept of all of the different steps of a day and what you go through
Richelle Direny: Admitting that you have no control over something I forgot.
Matthew Knauff: But either way, that you're powerless over your addiction. You got it.
Richelle Direny: You got it, you got exactly what I'm trying to say. But, um, you know, I do truly believe that while that helps you to become fully aware that you're powerless and it allows you to make amends with people that you've heard, and you kind of go through the steps.
Richelle Direny: I think deeper than that. It's also important to identify some of those
Richelle Direny: Things that at some point in life that you had lost
Richelle Direny: The ability to cope with different things like I thought about it this morning that oftentimes we have this where we're kind of
Richelle Direny: We're on this journey and right now on this journey things is good, you know, life is going great. I'm having no worries and then you hit a wall.
Richelle Direny: And like when you hit that wall on the other side of that wall is a period a season of trials that you're going to experience.
Richelle Direny: And the reason why you go through them is so when you get on the other side, depending on the choices you make while you're going through those trials. When you get to that other side
Richelle Direny: It's depending on, you make it either builds you up prepares you make you mentally and emotionally better to handle what is on the other side of that and what your ultimate purpose to accomplish on the other side.
Richelle Direny: And then as you get there. Then you go through another pretty smooth patch before you get to the next season of trials that you're going to experience.
Richelle Direny: Oftentimes, especially when you're looking at a person who, at some point in time kind of travel that road of addiction, whether it's to opiates alcohol, whatever it may be, they lost the ability to cope. They
Matthew Knauff: lost the ability that me completely. You're so right.
Matthew Knauff: You're you lie me. That's what I use for anytime somebody there. Right. I would just get high. If I didn't like house. It was going to just get high. And I didn't know how to cope with stuff at all. And I still not real, real good at that. Actually, can we can implement for sure.
Richelle Direny: So, and that's literally what happened when you're in that season or that period of your life, you're like, oh, I don't feel that on here. And so you take something to numbing you take something to somewhat freeze time, but you didn't really freeze time you froze yourself.
Matthew Knauff: But you still was smooth and right through it.
Richelle Direny: And you were kind of ignoring everything that was going on around you. But guess what, while you're ignoring the problems. The problems are still attaching itself you can be numb friend, but I'm come with you. So it's almost like you just linger.
Richelle Direny: longer and longer simply because you refuse to have to deal with it.
Richelle Direny: And so, I believe, truly in individual counseling. This is where now you have the opportunity to come head to head to face it, because guess what
Richelle Direny: All of these different things that you had to go through to become stronger to meet your ultimate purpose. They're still there, because they need to be addressed. You just need to learn how to, how do I
Richelle Direny: Address it. It's kind of like I might my scenario is you got a monkey on your back and you need to get them off.
Richelle Direny: But you have to acknowledge that he on there and you have to be willing to let go, your low. What you're going to you on baby your monkey for a minute. Are you going to get rid of it or I usually say either monkey or gorilla.
Richelle Direny: What you're going to, you're going to keep them there. Are you going to learn how to one at a time, remove each thing so that you are free enough
Richelle Direny: To move on with your life and to code and to just just cope healthier emotionally and mentally with life and anything else that comes with it. And that's kind of where you're able to do that through that one on one.
Richelle Direny: It's very hard for us to come to acceptance that we all have some degree of issues that we need to work on.
Richelle Direny: A lot of the times we know it, but we refuse to go through the process, the healing process of dealing with it. Um,
Richelle Direny: Oftentimes we push it in our subconscious.
Richelle Direny: But then we don't realize that those issues that are buried in your subconscious. It's really truly forcing its way out. And that's the reason why you feel an act the way you're doing now.
Richelle Direny: And you say, I don't really understand why I'm feeling that way. Or why did I do this. It's because there's something there that needs to get out and you're refusing to get it out individual
Matthew Knauff: That's how you address those issues.
Richelle Direny: Absolutely. I
Richelle Direny: So,
Richelle Direny: Sure, I can only extend and just let you know you know that's what I'm here for. And a lot of those things that you don't necessarily want to bring up in discuss in group groups are great, but certain things is not for everybody's ears.
Richelle Direny: And so
Richelle Direny: You know, right. That's where you have, you have to come in, you have to make that conscious decision to say
Richelle Direny: You want to be open to me to do that individual into do that work.
Richelle Direny: So if your goal is to maintain your sobriety while you've done it for so many years. If your goal is to continue maintaining that sobriety.
Richelle Direny: I encourage that you even if it's once a month, you kind of tap into this resource of saying, hey, you know what, Rochelle. Can we meet or you know you want to. Whether it's here or it's outside it's whatever you prefer.
Matthew Knauff: So definitely now that I'm going to start back to work, too, because I had like an illness for with my lungs and stuff for like two years now I'm starting back to work. I definitely will definitely need that because I get I take
Matthew Knauff: I have like see it like a different way than most people do. And I get I'm really feel like responsible and stuff for my
Matthew Knauff: Patients and their parents. So I really don't handle. If I can't save someone or something. I really don't. I don't deal with that. We're willing. So I definitely will use it because I get really, really.
Matthew Knauff: And I took a test before when I got into school and it said I would always have a problem with that because I have such a such a, you know, I see it as honor you know that someone allows me to care for me. You know, I don't see. So I feel really
Matthew Knauff: It's really
Matthew Knauff: I get really heavy load and I can't just leave stuff at work it whatever I see it comes home with me and I think so. I definitely that would definitely be good for me to do because it's real. I really
Matthew Knauff: Like that.
Richelle Direny: That's working on
Richelle Direny: Understanding what you can control and what you can't control and understand the difference between the two.
Richelle Direny: And you're absolutely right, learning not to take things home and knowing that it's okay that you leave work at work and home is home it it takes art. It takes time takes a long time.
Richelle Direny: But it can be done, but it's first understanding that I am I don't have all power and control. That's not the gifts that was given to me. So it's, it takes some time. So let me look at my calendar, because I do want to do a follow up session. And then from there we can you know
Richelle Direny: Schedule accordingly.
Richelle Direny: Now is evening or
Richelle Direny: Days better for you. What, what time is better for you.
Evening.
Richelle Direny: I can do Monday and seven. Is that too late or Tuesday at five.
Richelle Direny: The, the 13th at seven or the 14th at five.
Matthew Knauff: The 14th at five will be good.
Richelle Direny: Ohio Ohio Eastern Standard right or your central
Matthew Knauff: I don't know.
Richelle Direny: What time is it there now.
Matthew Knauff: Right now it's by 50
Eastern
Richelle Direny: Okay, so I have you all set.
Richelle Direny: So if you would like, um, it will go over this again if you would like, on the first
Richelle Direny: Thursday in
Richelle Direny: The first Thursday in next month, you can do the six o'clock, if that's better for your for 12 O'clock better whichever
Matthew Knauff: Okay.
Richelle Direny: All right, you have any other questions for me.
Matthew Knauff: Nope, okay.
Richelle Direny: Do me a favor, try to jump back into virtual clean. When you come out of here. Just kind of sign back into virtual clinic so you can have them. Okay.
Matthew Knauff: Okay.
Richelle Direny: Alright, see you tomorrow mafioso have a good
One.
Matthew Knauff: Okay.
Richelle Direny: Bye.
Richelle Direny: Hey, Patrick, how are you
Patrick S: I'm pretty good.
Richelle Direny: Are you hanging in there.
Patrick S: I'm I'm doing good. We got laid off.
Patrick S: They told me Thursday. We're going to be laid off on Monday, and I had, I took Friday off for
Patrick S: I use a vacation day Friday and
Patrick S: We're supposed to come back Monday, unless we hear anything.
Richelle Direny: Oh you you say you got you got laid off Friday.
Patrick S: Yeah, well no starting Monday.
Patrick S: So Monday was my first day of the layoff and more supposed to come back out and then and four days, five days, unless we hear some
Richelle Direny: So, okay. So basically you're just laid off for a week.
Patrick S: Yeah, but I'm pretty sure we're gonna like cuz since the Big Three laid off for three weeks. I'm sure will be offered least another week.
Richelle Direny: Okay.
Richelle Direny: Well, it's not it's not it's not all that horrible where some people they're laid off in definitely
Patrick S: Yeah, a lot of
Patrick S: Words that like big cities.
Richelle Direny: Where I mean, here and there. There's people like hotel chains and stuff like that that shut down day like late them off. Definitely.
Patrick S: Okay.
Richelle Direny: So that's
Richelle Direny: Where some people kind of live with.
Patrick S: You know,
Richelle Direny: Everybody is everybody's kind of hanging on. They are trying to figure out
Richelle Direny: Trying to figure out, you know what they're going to do or you know
Richelle Direny: If they're if they're going to have a job or, you know, it's kind of touching go
Yes.
Patrick S: What day was a Tuesday. This dude left work because he was hanging out over the weekend with people who had the coronavirus and he didn't know until Tuesday the that they had it and I don't think they knew either. So he comes to work and
Patrick S: He goes, he tells them, and then he goes the tested moral he didn't have any symptoms. So doctor's office didn't test him, and they gave him a return to word no and
Patrick S: So he's working with us next day and because the company want to want to pay him to stay home and I thought that was, you know, I can understand the company saying, yeah, we're not going to pay even though they probably should. But I thought that was his duty to to stay home and not
Patrick S: without pay. Regardless, I thought he should have done.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, yeah. I mean, especially if he knew later on that the people were exposed
Patrick S: look kind of
Richelle Direny: Cool to come to work, knowing that
You are exposed
Richelle Direny: And not things
Richelle Direny: So how have you been like trying to like I know when we, the last time in our group that we spoke. We talked about like your own self care and, you know, just being mindful of how you yourself to things so that
Patrick S: That's hard getting worse. We're stir crazy and it's a
Patrick S: She's been kind of difficult
Patrick S: But
Patrick S: In what in what way I'm
Patrick S: Just upset that I'm not paying 100% attention. They're like, I feel like playing a video game.
Patrick S: It's kind of annoying, but after we worked it out. We had a great day today.
Patrick S: But it's
Richelle Direny: Frustrating. I think part of that is going to come in because of you know cuz she you said you guys work together, right, or no no you don't.
Patrick S: You work in the same building.
Patrick S: Okay.
Richelle Direny: Why weren't you working soon.
Richelle Direny: Okay. But either way, I'm
Richelle Direny: This is like that hurt her feelings of not having getting me enough attention that was just like started this week because you guys were laid off right
Patrick S: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: And if you're not necessarily used to just kind of been bottled down and closed and everything like that. It's, um, it's definitely on to frustration intention and uncertainties and anxiety and fear and everything is going to be like mixed into that you know that attention.
Patrick S: Like I want attention because there's
Richelle Direny: Only so much and no more attention.
Patrick S: Right. And, you know, it'd be nice to go to a meeting with their clothes, Michigan. I don't know how Florida is with Michigan were under the don't leave the house thing but it's ridiculous because there's so much stuff open
Patrick S: Like today. I walked in a coffee shop.
Patrick S: It's checker records they got that's a record that shop. It's been around for since I've lived in Hillsdale for 30 years
Patrick S: But in the last five years, five to 10 years they started selling coffee to There ain't no reason a place like that should be open and it's open. Like there's not like
Patrick S: I don't understand this order at all.
Richelle Direny: I mean, you know, it's so this is the thing. And it's almost like you, you know that. Okay. Are you quiet. Are you following the rules.
Richelle Direny: But at the same time, you know, people are looking at, especially the smaller places if they're just looking like these mom and pop shops, they're just looking at the bottom line, you know, the income piece of it can really truly afford to
Richelle Direny: Stay close for one day and you know still be able, because it's not just about their employees there. It's also about their own livelihood.
Richelle Direny: Not the store, but you know the story is what pays their bills. And if that doesn't say open, then they
Will
Patrick S: But, you know, I'm not getting a paycheck right now.
Richelle Direny: But you see you have at least in their minds. They're looking at it like if I stopped working.
Richelle Direny: I, you know, that's the one I depend on where in if I had my own company. It's a whole lot of marketing and it's a whole lot of things that goes into my small business so
Richelle Direny: It's if I stop working. If I close down for a week or two, it's going to take a lot of marketing, it's going to take a lot of effort.
Richelle Direny: To generate the money in which I just lost because you're talking about pay for the overhead. The light the this, the that and then even with the stimulus package that they're coming up with who knows how long that's going to take before you get that
Richelle Direny: Yeah, where
Richelle Direny: Are you go back to work. I the small business person, what am I gonna do. Okay, depending on myself.
Right.
Richelle Direny: There's some small businesses. That's my understanding will never really truly recover from it.
Patrick S: Yeah, imagine
Patrick S: I heard that.
Patrick S: My wife sister called her freaking out because they're taken the government's taking our money to pay for this stuff like she they took her 401K.
Patrick S: I DON'T LIKE, I DON'T KNOW IF THEY'RE TAKING EVERYBODY'S 401k and they plan on giving it back or what
Richelle Direny: You know, I, you know, Patrick was I don't follow politics and I don't want I've learned today.
Richelle Direny: I've actually learned today, you know, you have to tread on like waters when it comes on to stuff, you know, I can only say my opinion of what I think I haven't read anything. I haven't
Richelle Direny: Watched anything but the little in my logics that question. Where are you getting all that money from are you giving me that my own money that I pay in taxes, where you get all this money.
Richelle Direny: You know, I'm getting excited. I'm getting this money or you just giving me about my own tax dollars or, like you said, for one came out of, I
Patrick S: I just started 401K, like, five months ago, so I don't really get shit in there but
Richelle Direny: You have something in there. Probably nothing in there now.
Patrick S: Yeah, yeah. But, uh, somebody who's been fucking putting money into that for five years.
Patrick S: That I mean
Richelle Direny: 20 3040 50,000 miles.
Already
Patrick S: Know that's that's ridiculous.
Richelle Direny: A lot of the more money you have in in the morning good you lose a lot. I know I was talking to my mom and she says that she doesn't even want to look
Richelle Direny: Busy woman should see what I see how much she lost because you think about the last recession that we had and how much people were losing hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Yeah.
Richelle Direny: And, you know, you're the you're the little late person, even if you had, let's say you've had for one k for the last 10 years
Richelle Direny: Mm hmm whatever amount of money you had in there. Even if you lost like 20 $30,000 how it's going to take you to recover that money.
Patrick S: What your the rest of your life.
Patrick S: It's, it's so, so I got bailed out by not being responsible and putting all that money away like everybody else.
Patrick S: That's bullshit.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, I honestly don't know. I mean, listen, I don't know. I don't know. I mean, you put you put you you put in
Richelle Direny: A certain percent in your 401K your company if your company matches it. After this I doubt your company's going to match it anymore.
Richelle Direny: Yeah I bout they're going to match anything
Richelle Direny: And if they match it. I mean, I don't know by the time you're ready to retire and you're eligible take that money and even when you're ready to retire. They try to encourage you not to take the full amount only take some and leave the rest in it to continue to get invested
So either way you put it, I don't know.
Richelle Direny: Listen, all I could say is, try your best it you know I can't stress it enough, find your own self care because sitting and watching this stuff will make you go nuts.
Patrick S: Yeah I don't I try not to watch it.
It just really makes you go nuts. It makes you question.
Patrick S: It makes you
Question everything
Richelle Direny: I mean, let me ask you this. Now, I mean granted it's only been a week. But what is something new and innovative that you've done. Like, do you see your parents more
Patrick S: Know they took they that this is weird. They told me they didn't want me to come over for a while and I'm you know i'm i'm glad they're being careful. I'm glad they said that
Patrick S: But the first day that they said that, like, I'm almost 40 years old. I'm be 40 in October, I felt like a little kid, the day they told me that, but
Patrick S: Coming over that. They told me they said they asked me not to come over and I felt like that day I felt like the little kid, like I didn't have any parents like not they
Richelle Direny: Did you like don't come don't come out.
Patrick S: Yeah, they did. And my dad, he's diabetic and 70 and a mom 60 a no. She's 6971 I'm glad they're being careful and because I told him I
Richelle Direny: hit you, you, you weren't expecting that it hit
Patrick S: It hit me hard like yeah, hit me hard. I felt what I made me feel like a kid.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, I mean, listen, and that's a legitimate feeling because I think in that moment, even though like I know the coronavirus is real. I know that people are getting sick and I know this is happening. But then I can't see you. What do you mean I can't come over and see you. It's like
Richelle Direny: It just kind of confirmed that hey, you gotta say what you can't do anything.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, so hey listen. I mean, I know you said you bought 50 packs of cigarettes. I mean, when you start running low, then it's going to really hit you a second time.
Yeah.
Patrick S: Well, I got a couple bags. It's a backhoe
Patrick S: that'll last a few months. Well, no two bags and pray last month.
Richelle Direny: No. Wow. Well, you did say you're heavy, you're a heavy smoker heavy tobacco you chew tobacco.
Patrick S: I do at work.
Patrick S: But yeah, I'm smoking way too much now.
Richelle Direny: That's anxiety.
Patrick S: That's getting anxiety and
Richelle Direny: anxiety and fear. You just, you just display it a little bit differently than how your wife.
Patrick S: I went outside to smoke. I would cut out at least a pack a day but I smoke indoors.
Richelle Direny: What's the difference between inside and outside
Patrick S: I don't want to get up and go outside to smoke a cigarette. It's like a
Richelle Direny: Are you outside because I hear birds chirping
Patrick S: Yeah, I'm outside right now.
Oh,
Patrick S: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: So, um,
Richelle Direny: What what is something that you can do because I mean the intensity of your smoking. I mean, I think that leads, it's like surrounds your anxiety or fear of something. So what, like, what do you think that anxiety is coming from.
Patrick S: A
Patrick S: I don't know.
Patrick S: See, I've been. I was on benzo for five years arm.
Patrick S: Then they took me off those when I first got on. When I first got in the Suboxone stepped down program, a year and a half ago, they took away my men's owes arm.
Patrick S: But I'm pretty used to anxiety. So now it's just part of life. Like, I don't, I don't know what I'm sure a lot of anxiety is
Patrick S: Like, I don't know if I i know that i need to get back to work and make money, but since I got bad lungs. I'm scared if that means if I get it on. I'm automatically dead.
Richelle Direny: About to say that because I think, look at this point it's not so much situational as it could possibly be medical because of the fact that you knew that was the last time you've been to the doctor.
Patrick S: It's been a while.
Richelle Direny: Was a while like a year or two, three.
Patrick S: Other than for going for Suboxone Um no I went to the doctor. I was sick month ago, I was sick as hell sick, so I've ever been, I think, for about
Patrick S: And it might have been five weeks ago for about a started feeling kind of shitty Friday night, Saturday, and Sunday. I was on the couch. I didn't do nothing.
Patrick S: Monday. Well, I got up and tried doing laundry and stuff. I did a little bit of housework, but for the most part, I was on the couch and then Monday I called in took a point at work and I threw up Monday night.
Patrick S: But I, it wasn't like it wasn't like regular when I was a kid when I threw up. I'd, I'd add her all over
Patrick S: Um,
Patrick S: But yeah, and then Tuesday I went back to work and I was pretty tired and I went, got a flu test. And that turned out negative. I went to the doctor Saturday and
Patrick S: Sunday didn't have the flu, but my body was so tired. I had no energy and I was coughing, I ended up shaving my chest. So I could put Vicks on my chest, all the time because i i i like it doesn't feel like big gets in anywhere but I don't do that.
Patrick S: I put this on my feet before I went to bed and throw some socks on.
Richelle Direny: Mm hmm. And you said like he rubbed your chest, your like I under your nose and your back.
Patrick S: Yeah, I didn't put Vic's on my back. But yeah, my back and shoulders eight
Patrick S: Everything.
Know,
Patrick S: I took a food. I had a flu tests and they, they, you know, they put that thing up my nose. It was negative.
Patrick S: But
Richelle Direny: Because of the fact that you're a smoker, it's all, it's gonna make you feel worse.
Patrick S: What is
Richelle Direny: When you get sick.
Patrick S: Yeah, I mean it could have been
Patrick S: Just made me feel worse because I'm a smoker.
Patrick S: Time since I've been sick. I couldn't be it.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, I think that's that's partly what it is, it's because of the fact that you're a smoker.
Richelle Direny: You're pretty heavy smoker, do you, um,
Patrick S: But I know, I know some people who get coronavirus or asymptomatic order.
Richelle Direny: Yeah. Yeah. A lot of people. That's why they say you pass it because you don't know that you have it.
Patrick S: Yeah, and
Patrick S: I'm I know there is a blood type that you're better off with and I got that blood type.
Patrick S: I got
Patrick S: I got the good blood to
Richelle Direny: What is that blood type.
Patrick S: O positive,
Richelle Direny: Oh you have that your lady, there's one that's a universal donor. One is a universal receiver, but it's kind of, it's like a rare blood type, because
Patrick S: Well for coronavirus
Patrick S: The people who have all positive seem to handle it better.
Patrick S: It's either that or they're less likely to get it.
Richelle Direny: Oh, that's what makes sense.
Patrick S: Yes. With this
Richelle Direny: Well, I mean, I think he's just overall. You just have to be if you sit there and worry about
Whether or not you're
Richelle Direny: If you're too overly cautious. I mean, all you're doing is just putting additional stress on yourself unnecessary stress on yourself.
Richelle Direny: I think it's just important that you, you know, just be as cautious as possible.
Patrick S: Yeah, like
Richelle Direny: wearing jeans. That's it.
Patrick S: If I go back to work. I just
Patrick S: Try to maintain my distance, but it's hard not to touch your face when you're when you're in a factory sweat and it's hard as this real are not touch your face.
Richelle Direny: I think it's hard just naturally just, you can actually if you know like I my face. It shows me my nose itches me like, what am I going to do go. It is hard. It is hard. But I mean, but outside of that, like I said, it's practicing proper hand hygiene.
Richelle Direny: Just hygiene. Overall, you did when you come home, you take your clothes off. You put it in the wash.
Richelle Direny: You know you don't go laying around in your clothes that you just got off of work.
Richelle Direny: Things of that nature.
Yeah.
Richelle Direny: Is what we encourage you to do.
Richelle Direny: You know, and, but, but, again, like I said, when do you feel. Do you feel that there's a certain time of the day that you smoke more or less.
Patrick S: In the morning as an attendee to smoke.
Patrick S: Well, the first hour I'm up, I'm pretty much smoking the entire time.
Richelle Direny: And do you feel like more anxious in the morning, like when you have to go to work or just preparing for the day, get on the road. Do you feel less anxious, like, what, what do you think if you're supposed to identify
Richelle Direny: And the times that you smoke. The most like what's going on at that time.
Patrick S: Let's heard it. Oh I smoke law. It's our heads are that though.
Richelle Direny: Huh.
Richelle Direny: Do you think you don't take medication for anxiety. Do you
Patrick S: Not oppressor
Richelle Direny: Have you been feeling with this whole thing going on. Have you been feeling more anxious I mean more depressed.
Patrick S: Situational um
Richelle Direny: Well, especially with this now that you've been laid off for a week.
Patrick S: I haven't been to the press have been annoyed quite a bit.
Patrick S: When I
Richelle Direny: Was of like with your wife wanting the attention or
The
Richelle Direny: I mean, what's different.
Richelle Direny: Okay, you guys are home yes a little bit more. But what's the difference. Now your whole then when you go to work and come home regulars you paid her more attention after you've been out all day.
Patrick S: Um, yeah. Thanks. So there we miss each other and then we come home and we're there. And every now and then I'd play a game like maybe every other day of a basketball game and
Patrick S: Since I'm off where I'm playing more and she just never liked
Patrick S: The
Richelle Direny: Now you're you're forced to kind of
Patrick S: Yeah, I'm kind of I'm I've been enjoying the time off, because I can play video games instead go to work, but she says she's ready to go back to work.
Richelle Direny: So play video games teach her how to play a game. Find a movie that you guys will watch together.
Patrick S: I've been trying like she's just sick of it she she needs to get out.
Patrick S: Like as we she has watched TV, she doesn't. She can't do that like constantly. I can't do it constantly either, but I can hand if I don't work. I can handle watching TV or playing video games for at least 10 hours and all that sounds like a lot but
Patrick S: I can handle just chillin better than she can, I guess.
Richelle Direny: Is it is it that she um
Richelle Direny: She's always been one to like she's a workaholic, like she always has to be on the move one on the goal.
Patrick S: No, no.
Patrick S: She likes being at work when I'm there, I'm
Patrick S: Like she'll even sign up for a Saturday. If I'm working but
Patrick S: She likes her days off, too. But she did it when we do have a day off. I'm ready to relax because I think it's because I'm worn out from working.
Patrick S: I mean, I will go and I will go out and do some like go on a family function or whatever but it. I don't like doing it both days I like one day where I can chill and i don't know i'm just better sitting around in front of the TV and she is
Patrick S: She's not
Necessarily
Patrick S: I guess.
Richelle Direny: I mean, if there was this funny thing that I saw was Steve Harvey on Family Feud ask the guy like if your
Richelle Direny: If your wife decided to leave you on a Saturday night. What would you do Sunday morning.
Richelle Direny: What do you think that he said
Patrick S: Oh, I've no idea.
Richelle Direny: Okay, so I'm going to ask it this way. You're regarding if your wife, we decided, hey, you know what, I'm out of here on a Saturday night. What is something you think you would do the next morning.
Patrick S: I, I'd be devastated. I would were pretty cold and
Richelle Direny: It's okay well that's different, because you're codependent the guy said that he was sleeping because that's extra sleep because then you're not waking
Richelle Direny: And I could see my husband saying the same thing, something because he just want to be bothered me that morning. He'll. He'll probably be devastated. But maybe after he fully wakes up.
Patrick S: Yeah.
He doesn't want to be bothered.
Richelle Direny: Me. But you know, it's just kind of like a guy just likes to relax, that's, you know, just kind of relax, kind of, I want to do nothing day
Patrick S: I just want
Richelle Direny: To go to mush a whole day. Just leave me alone. I can sit here watch TV and just make my brain, go to mush where the woman's mind is constantly working through this, what I'm doing to being busy. I can't sit still. So it's the dynamic
Richelle Direny: You know just how a man. But then, like you said, she just wants to work. And then there's also the security of having some kind of money to be able to pay your bills.
Yeah.
Patrick S: Yeah, I'm not plan on paying the bills for a little bit.
Richelle Direny: But I think this is giving you the opportunity to be able to defer a few of your bills.
Patrick S: Yeah, I'm hoping
Patrick S: To stay in tune on what happens about bills now.
Patrick S: Why, what what the
Patrick S: I don't need to know how many people got it. And how many people have died, but I need to find out, like what I need to find out.
Patrick S: Like what are they, how they're planning on
Patrick S: Bye.
Patrick S: What does
Patrick S: Not pay bills for a month or something other than making it up later.
Richelle Direny: Like, especially if you don't know if you pay rent how that will work because then you would have to go to your renter to see what they're saying. What if it's
Richelle Direny: Like your mortgage company, you can call and you know defer your payments for three months on certain payments you can differ a little bit longer.
Patrick S: Once we can do three months.
Richelle Direny: I believe so. I believe that's what three months.
Patrick S: Does that mean yo three months, all at once, or they tack it on to the back.
Richelle Direny: So like if you have a mortgage instead of you if you're new to pay off your mortgage in 2030 January 2030 you will play it off and maybe March or April of 2013
Patrick S: loca
Richelle Direny: Or big factor. They find a way to factor it back into your loan. Yeah.
Patrick S: I could see the bank doing that. But what about the gas company and the power company.
Richelle Direny: They I don't. I know, I know here in Florida, they're not
Richelle Direny: Forgot what they said that they're doing. You would have to speak to your power company in you have guests there in Michigan. Right.
Patrick S: What's a
Richelle Direny: Gas like we don't want to guess you guys have gas right
Yeah.
Patrick S: I got a gas Michigan gas. I gotta guess, well I don't got propane.
Richelle Direny: Yes, like here everything is electric so
Richelle Direny: You would have to contact. I think this is the time if your home longer than the lead, I would start making phone calls like evil. The school loan.
Richelle Direny: Loan that they're garnishing
Patrick S: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: It, find out about ways for them to still garnish that amount of money.
Richelle Direny: You know, see if there's any way they can work something out where their own garden, she more like whatever little income, you're getting you're
Patrick S: Saying I
Patrick S: Should call and ask them because I get my last check Friday.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, yeah. So that's something that you can definitely look into to see if you could
Richelle Direny: You know if that will be helpful for you.
Patrick S: How isn't in Florida is is there. Is it one of the more the bigger states got a bigger problem or
Richelle Direny: Yeah I know they they said that we have. Last I checked, it was like 22 deaths in Florida total
Patrick S: It doubles every day.
Richelle Direny: Like it doubles every hour.
Richelle Direny: Seems like it is doubles every minute.
Richelle Direny: You're hearing something different.
Patrick S: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: I mean I don't necessarily follow it as much.
Richelle Direny: I want to review your treatments.
Richelle Direny: Well, when do you see Dr. For Bravo.
Patrick S: Monday.
Richelle Direny: You see him every Monday.
Patrick S: No, I'm
Patrick S: I'm gonna see him next Monday.
Richelle Direny: Whatever happens to the discussion we talked about with your
Richelle Direny: Your wife.
Richelle Direny: And you wanting the firearm and she wasn't too keen on the idea
Patrick S: Oh, we're not getting
Patrick S: I don't, I mean,
Patrick S: I don't see coming down to the
Patrick S: No, I don't think it will be needed.
Richelle Direny: So you came on, she what you guys talked about it and then she just, you just said, Okay, I agree.
Patrick S: Yeah, well,
Patrick S: Yeah, pretty much.
Patrick S: It wasn't that big of an issue. I thought like I was thinking it might be necessary, but
Patrick S: I don't know, I just stopped thinking it was something I had to do.
Richelle Direny: I just think, you know, like I said, it's between you and her, but I think what she says speaks
Richelle Direny: Speaks volumes.
Richelle Direny: Who you know the current situation, because once once a person starts getting stress.
Patrick S: I know she's more worried about the money than I am. And that's crazy because when we're working. I'm always worried about money.
Richelle Direny: So what a little bit more comfort comfort. Now, in comparison to
Patrick S: Just the feeling like that what they need. I, I felt like they needed to shut us down. And so I was relieved when I did.
Richelle Direny: It because the knowledge that the guy had been exposed
Patrick S: Yeah, and and the fact that I have COPD hours.
Patrick S: Thinking, I was definitely a gone or by got it. So I felt relieved and I still like I'm still thinking the yeah I'm not ready to go back to work.
Richelle Direny: But fearful of losing of you're fearful of
Richelle Direny: It being fatal for you because of the fact that you have COPD.
Yeah.
Patrick S: Um, I don't know why I'm not stressing about money. But when we're working. I got all those bills.
Patrick S: I'm more to stress as she doesn't right now.
Richelle Direny: You're thinking about you're thinking about life in depth, that's why.
Patrick S: You go
Live
Richelle Direny: And whether or not you have money in your pocket.
Patrick S: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: Because that's going to be another stressor. If you end up in the hospital and you're trying to maintain all those meals that you have in your own able to work and
Richelle Direny: Not being around for her. So it comes down.
Thinking about
Patrick S: Is this pretty much all your talks, if everybody else is going, talking about the corona.
Richelle Direny: Said again.
Patrick S: Is this what you're talking about. With all your clients coronavirus
Richelle Direny: Not necessarily. It's just as it's related to them individually.
Richelle Direny: Taking it and i mean
Richelle Direny: When I thought about the current virus, because the current of ours is it's look. It's a virus, but it's
Richelle Direny: Is the side effects of all of it. What is it doing for you. How is it you know if your home.
Richelle Direny: If you look, you lost it. I know someone else that lost their job and they have a lot of kids to take care of.
Richelle Direny: So you're the stress factor.
Richelle Direny: You know what is something or what are you coming up with a group we talks about
Richelle Direny: You know, at this point, thinking about your own creativity taking an introspective look at yourself and see how can you become creative
Richelle Direny: And starting your own thing to generate income in comparison to depending on an employer, how can I become creative with the dawn of now everything is going online. Maybe you can start something online to make money, so it's it's not
Richelle Direny: We're not talking about the corona fire because I'm not a medical professional our really know how it affects you were what what it's what is the impact it's having on you in your day to day life.
Richelle Direny: And focusing on that because
Richelle Direny: Ultimate ultimately
Richelle Direny: The side effects of it and what it's doing to everyone becomes paramount to everything else.
Richelle Direny: Your, your homestead like you said that your wife. She's home stress. She's not working know money's coming in. All these things are going on.
Richelle Direny: What do you think a person does when they get overly stressed and overwhelmed in this losing all sense of control.
Richelle Direny: As a person that is an addict. What do you think will happen to that person.
Richelle Direny: If they feel like they have no sense of control and they don't know what else to do.
Richelle Direny: It's an increase the possibility of her relapse. So it's, you know, I think it's very important to check in to see how each individual is coping with the health care.
Richelle Direny: In moving forward.
Patrick S: I think
Patrick S: The one call that I probably should make is the
Patrick S: The courthouse no annoyed about the child support. Mm hmm. A surprise definitely find out about the because I am behind already
Richelle Direny: You not thought about asking you that work, how does your daughter.
Patrick S: She's gonna be 15 in July.
Richelle Direny: I will definitely call I saw it I you know I would recommend that after we you know you we we we wrap it up. I think it's making a list of all the people that you need to call
Richelle Direny: To see you know what
Richelle Direny: What bills. You can defer
Richelle Direny: You're not hold accountable and responsible or you're not.
Richelle Direny: Going to come down to the child support that they're not holding holding you
Richelle Direny: What is that called in default
Richelle Direny: Opinion, or at least you call to make an effort to say, Hey, I just got laid off on what can I do in in you know inside of
Richelle Direny: Whatever, whatever with everything that's going on and not being able to make your child support payments. So those are things like, you know, hey, for the week. Those are the things that you could have done bit being a little bit more proactive.
Richelle Direny: In making those calls because
Richelle Direny: While there's the fear of getting sick and you're kind of relieved that you're home. But at the same time. You don't want to procrastinate.
Patrick S: And then
Richelle Direny: Bounce off on you, and then they become unforgiving and says well you should have called us right in the heart of it.
Patrick S: Yeah.
Patrick S: Yeah. Do I gotta
Patrick S: Get my own employment claim done tomorrow and
Patrick S: All that stroke.
Richelle Direny: Did they did. They lay you off. Like what, like, you know, but they do, they say, just take a weekend and come back.
Patrick S: The latest off.
Patrick S: And he said, all he could tell us was were laid off next week, and they would be getting a hold of us.
Patrick S: I don't know, I'm assuming, I'll hear something Friday.
Patrick S: And if I don't, I'll be calling Friday.
Yeah.
Richelle Direny: I think calling them Friday. But I think your first phone call tomorrow should be to the courthouse.
Patrick S: Yeah, it will be
Patrick S: Because
Richelle Direny: You don't want to be in a position where
Richelle Direny: You're on.
Richelle Direny: The it's the difference in calling now and waiting till later they're going to say, well, no, this is everything is kind of back to normal. If you call in the heart of it at least they can make a plan with you to say okay well let's resume payment until in X amount of days.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, so I think
Patrick S: There be until this year until this year, I've never had a problem with child support.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, so, but give them a call. You don't see your daughter anymore. Right.
Patrick S: Now text during the
Patrick S: I'm told her how much I loved her, and
Patrick S: told her that I was worried about the coronavirus and all that. And I just wanted to let her know that she's very loved and all that. And she didn't respond.
Richelle Direny: Do you guys talk everyone so long.
Patrick S: Now we haven't talked to her since Christmas. I said, Merry Christmas, and she returned a Merry Christmas, and I left her alone because she told me that she didn't want to talk to me ever again in July.
Patrick S: I wasn't expecting her to say Merry Christmas back but she did.
Patrick S: Earn a
Patrick S: Over was last week, I think it was last week.
Patrick S: Might have been the week before I got a phone call from her step dad, they can I claimed Natalie for taxes and it wasn't my year
Patrick S: And I didn't
Patrick S: I didn't claimer but my account or lady did our taxes, she
Patrick S: Um,
Patrick S: Was going over all my like best options and she put something called
Patrick S: I don't know my daughter was a had a household qualifier.
Patrick S: So I got
Patrick S: Some little bit of money, but it wasn't claiming her
Patrick S: So,
Patrick S: Um, I was looking at my paperwork and I called him back. And I said, Yeah, it looks like I did. Kramer and I don't know how it happened because
Patrick S: I'm 100% sure that she knew that I couldn't claim her because I forgot all about the head of household qualifier thing didn't even know what it was. But, uh, so I got a hold of the accountant. I drove out there and I love to know and she never returned our call other than
Patrick S: My wife. This was Thursday, she called she got sent home for not feeling good at work, Thursday, which was my last day and
Patrick S: And she had Friday off to we both put in for a vacation day
Patrick S: Well, she called the accountant and the accountant told her to have me color. Then I called her and she told me about the head of household qualifier thing and then I told him.
Patrick S: What that was and said, yes, she said, I did not claim her like she I didn't get her as a credit and he said he was planning on sending some paperwork for me to
Patrick S: Well, basically, he was going to turn me into I'm
Patrick S: IRS because his accountant said that somebody claimed her in nobody claimed or so.
Patrick S: I don't know, like if he got back for his accountant told him what happened. I don't know if there's some confusion on his part, but he thought I claimed or not dinner.
Richelle Direny: So, oh, so putting her at the hospital is not really playing her
Patrick S: No, I didn't. I didn't claim her and get 1500 dollars in a
Patrick S: Big earned income credit because of it. I got some little I got something little that's legal to do, is my understanding of it.
Richelle Direny: Also you claim her every other year.
Patrick S: Yes, every other year, I get the claim.
Patrick S: And
Patrick S: I'd feel rotten like next year when it's my year if I'm still way behind on child support, and she won't even talk to me. I don't even want to claim it
Richelle Direny: Oh, you just told her mom. She's playing
Patrick S: Well, either that or if I claimed her I get I'd spend all the money getting caught up on child support.
Richelle Direny: Which is probably what would really happen.
Patrick S: That's probably what I'll do is if I get the opportunity claimer then pay all my child support, get it back up to date.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, I think I just would definitely encourage that you kind of sit, you know, in this time that your home.
Richelle Direny: Is really review.
Richelle Direny: You need to do kind of
Richelle Direny: Prioritize all the things that you need to do, you know, and then go from there. So,
Patrick S: Everything I need done in one day.
Patrick S: To
Richelle Direny: Get it done in an hour, at least, you need to have an idea.
Richelle Direny: Of, you know what's going on on things that you need to do and you at least
Richelle Direny: Way, even though you're not necessarily stress about money, but at least your wife has some assurance that whatever little money that you guys do get you can actually save it or do something else with it puts us to the side.
Richelle Direny: It gives you some assurance.
Patrick S: That we're going to be okay.
Richelle Direny: That you're going to be okay. Yes. I mean, if you get, let's say if you guys get $2,000 per pay period, both of you. Come on. Let's just, for argument's sake.
Richelle Direny: And other that $2,000 you're paying all your bills but then if you're able to speak to all of these your creditors or whomever
Richelle Direny: And they say, okay, well given in light of everything. You guys got laid off, let's just go ahead and defer all of these things and you're not really making any payments, at least you can
Richelle Direny: Just get your beer essentially with the money you have put down the rest so that when you do get back on your feet you do start working, you would have some money already in the bank, and you're somewhat okay
I don't
Patrick S: Offer another week or two, we're not gonna have any money at all.
Richelle Direny: Well, I'm sure. But that's why I'm saying you you will you would have to start thinking now, and making phone calls. Now,
Patrick S: I see. I see what you're saying. Yeah, you
Richelle Direny: Need to do it, just so you have an idea.
Richelle Direny: Is going to be in that same boat.
Patrick S: Everybody's gonna be in that same boat. For the most part, like
Patrick S: Everybody in our neighborhood.
Richelle Direny: Everybody's going to be in that boat. But if you can offset it if you can offset your financial
Richelle Direny: For a week or two in terms of what you have and what you don't have. If I'm going to go hungry, and I'm going to go. Let me see if I can offset it where I don't go hungry for another two weeks.
Patrick S: Oh, we're not. Yeah.
Richelle Direny: No, but I'm just giving you an idea, the concept of when you make these phone calls and you start putting things in place, at least it buys you some time.
Patrick S: Right.
Richelle Direny: There's a difference between having zero dollars in the account today, simply because you paid all your bills in comparison to having something in the bank for the next one, two weeks because you offset your bills. Right.
Patrick S: Yeah, I'll see. I wasn't gonna pay bills, but I guess I will call and tell them, find out what I can do won't make a plan or something.
Richelle Direny: You can plan it and that and that's what it is, it's me, it's at least having that that
Richelle Direny: Making that conscious
Richelle Direny: Effort to speak to someone, instead of just acting like
Richelle Direny: Having the money from not calling
Richelle Direny: Them pay the bills. I think they'll be more willing to work with you if you have a conversation with them in comparison to if you just say, Hey, you know what, I don't have any money. I'm not going to call them.
Patrick S: Right. A BIG DIFFERENCE. SO,
Richelle Direny: Let me see if I could schedule you um so you're going to come to group next week. Next week is the first week of
Patrick S: Yeah.
Richelle Direny: Actually next week is the 31st.
Patrick S: Was gonna come to group next week.
Patrick S: Or unless you want to move it to two weeks I'm fine of the
Richelle Direny: What the what the group, the group, I would say, Come
Patrick S: Every two weeks.
Richelle Direny: Yeah. Cuz that's how you do it. I think you come every other week to group.
Yeah.
Richelle Direny: Because financially, it's going to be even harder now that you're not working.
Patrick S: Yes.
Richelle Direny: So let's move
What
Richelle Direny: Have you scheduled for the eighth
Richelle Direny: For individual
Patrick S: Okay.
Richelle Direny: So you have a group next week and then the following week you have you meet with me on the eighth you're already on my calendar.
Patrick S: All right, I guess. Another thing I gotta do is talk to my HR and find out what's going on with our insurance.
Patrick S: Since we're laid off.
Richelle Direny: Yeah, yeah, that's another, like I said, start jotting down all the people you need to call
Richelle Direny: Maybe you
Richelle Direny: Know I'm anxious because now you're getting down to the nitty gritty, or you're using her stressors.
Richelle Direny: You're eating her mind because now you're making phone calls, you're finding out what you guys can do and at least you have some idea, you know, moving forward.
Richelle Direny: What creates fear of the unknown.
Richelle Direny: But once we start becoming more and having better understanding then kind of decreases our enzyme
Richelle Direny: Right. Well, you can always send me a message if you, um, you know, if you can't make group or or individually. Just send me a message and say, hey, we're shall I won't be able to make it because this is the situation.
Patrick S: Okay, I'll do that. Okay.
Richelle Direny: All right then, Patrick. So I'll see you next week for group.
Patrick S: Will time on the eighth
Richelle Direny: Six o'clock. I'll send you a reminder, like I did yesterday.
Patrick S: Alright, cool.
Richelle Direny: Alright, man. Have a good evening.
Patrick S: BYE BYE. I'LL SEE YOU.
Richelle Direny: All right.